---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Becoming a TechFolios Developer"
date: 2018-08-23
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - ICS 491
  - TechFolios
  - Application Development
---

This Fall I've decided to join onboard the TechFolios development team in order to gain more real-life experience in Software Engineering. I've had experience using TechFolios, and a similar system called BowFolios, while taking ICS 314 (Software Engineering I), and revisited the system while creating an alert system for ICS 414 (Software Engineering II). Being able to work more intimately with a system which I used while taking Software Engineering will hopefully provide me with opportunities to learn how the system works internally, fix issues that my peers and I encountered while using the system, and hopefully create changes which will improve the system overall.

When using Techfolios, there were many steps which could be confusing or difficult to accomplish. For example, adding an essay to your portfolio requires a specific format, and any deviation will cause the essay to appear incorrect, or even not appear at all. I remember encountering an issue which the title not appearing on my essay, only to figure out that the issue was including quotation marks within the title. Additionally, there are no specific error messages that appear when errors occur, which means it is up the user to figure out where the issue lies. For a first-time user, it can be difficult to figure out where these errors are, especially if the user has no prior experience with Markdown, and/or reading and editing a JSON file.

TechFolio Designer is a desktop application which attempts to solve some of these problems that I encountered while working with Techfolios. By providing an interactive UI, this application allows users to edit their Techfolios without having to directly edit the files within the repository. I hope to be able to contribute something useful while working on this application, and improve the usability of the application for first-time and returning users.
